- Thoughts on [[Jackson Palmer]]'s [thread against cryptocurrency](https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353985406406658?s=20)
    - I'd like to give my reactions to this thread, because I think Jackson is partly right, and he's right enough that I think he's facilitating the division that he's claiming is inevitable, and I think it's worth sharing my perspective on how. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353984617914370?s=20
    - This is a hell of a thesis statement, and deserves a couple tweets of unpacking at least. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353985406406658?s=20
        - There is definitely a right-wing/libertarian community that really loves the self-determined ethos of public blockchains, and has made them early adopters of them. I think it can be easy to confuse a dominant community with a fundamental property. I know a lot of people with a lot of different ideologies who see blockchain as a way of addressing problems they see. I believe a lot of it can cut across the culture war, but if the left falls for treating it as "the other side", they will yield one of the most valuable technological advantages of the century.
        - Calling it hyper-capitalistic is an easy trigger phrase. It's hard to find two people who agree on a definition of capitalism these days. Is it anything with markets, or is it related to the current democratic governments that determine the subsidies and tax breaks of the current market system?
        - While there is a point to make that any property rights are protected by the current government, I think Jackson is talking about being currency-oriented makes crypto hyper-capitalist. I just hope readers will go a little deeper. Consider the research on the history of alternative currencies by Bernard Lieater. The ability to make new units of account and trade goes a bit beyond our modern political buzzwords.
    - It's definitely true that a lot of power has gone to a small group of service providers, and some of them are part funded by legacy institutions, but that would also be true for a larger movement towards decentralization, and so I don't think this snapshot is sufficient to conclude failure from. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353986392072196?s=20
    - There definitely are industry players that do what Jackson is accusing of here. Cryptocurrency by definition is selling a concept of money, and so of course every type of huckster there is has entered the space. I think it's important to help users naturally avoid these scams, and facilitate their natural discovery of things that are worthy of their trust, which do also exist. That's not a quick-fix, but I'm not here to claim quick fixes, but for solving long problems. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353987503583236?s=20
    - Honestly, in the scene's current state, this is not the worst message to send to lay-people. Especially those who are entering with a speculator's mindset, it's probably safer to treat it all as scams if you're not going to preserve your resources for things you actually have confidence in. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353988535394310?s=20
    - Blockchains don't technically limit intervention, this point is just way off. Most of them are transparent, for one. There is also a growing industry of custodial, multi-sig, and insurance products for people engaged in crypto. I have no doubt that with time to mature that most of the financial safeties that people associate with credit cards will also be available on blockchains, and then some. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353989323841537?s=20
    - If this is anyone's goal, it definitely isn't everyone's. As a wallet developer, I can say that most wallets as they exist today are still very early, still feeling out the safeties that can be provided to users. The immaturity wasn't masterminded, we are actually historically early still. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353990208901123?s=20
    - I'll just take this moment to say I enormously respect Jackson. His YouTube would break down complex protocols with grace and enthusiasm, and he obviously understands a lot of the technical underpinnings of crypto. I am not trying to character assassinate him here, I am trying to engage with these ideas. https://twitter.com/ummjackson/status/1415353991106420741?s=20
    - 
