- [[Spell Server]]
- [[Ethan Buchman]] on [[Modern Monetary Theory (MMT)]]
    - https://twitter.com/buchmanster/status/1394440569909301252?s=21
- [[[[endo]] [[LavaMoat]] Call]]
    - [[webpack]] requires reconfiguration when your transitive dependencies change.
        - [[mop]] was a direct competitor of [[webpack]] by [[Kris Kowal]] that aspired to solve some of those problems.
    - [[muji]] is working on getting [[LavaMoat]] working on [[esbuild]]
        - [[swc]] is a [[rust (language)]] based [[TypeScript]] compiler.
        - shape
            - A JS file that contains code that constructs compartments
            - Individual modules are wrapped in basically the [[eight magic lines]] without the [[eval]]
        - This is similar to how [[Caja]] worked
            - [[Mark Miller]] agrees this allows making the eval unnecessary, but this made it hard to (without a parser) do a [[completion value]]
        - [[Kris Kowal]] would like [[LavaMoat]] to support extensions to the module system to support binary modules, to include zips of applications that applications may deploy.
            - Similar to [[Spell Server]]
            - Uses a [[safe [[zip file]] subset]]
    - [[Kris Kowal]] as a [[JavaScript]] implementation of [[Syrup]]
        - Would be irresponsible to ship
            - Its definition of dictionary is not the same as a JS record.
            - Syrup has no such concept.
        - Gave Kris thoughts on the collections API. How to do [[[[CapTP]] collections]]
            - Something [[Mark Miller]] has been working on
            - A bunch of design decisions for which the serialization format is irrelevant.
            - Goals
                - Preserving identity
                - Preserving ordering
                - Not all objects are orderable
                    - If a map contains a key or value that is not orderable, it is not orderable.
            - Not like Maps and Sets
                - Maps can have items with identity, but in JS, non-remotable objects can have identity: Promises, for example.
                - No objects like Dictionaries (that can be mutated), they are all frozen in transit.
            - So this would be "sorted maps and sets"
            - Mark's initial [[stratification of comparability]] failed
                - What it was, earlier theory, now known to be wrong.
                    - https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/markm-many-stores/packages/marshal/src/store-types.md
                    - https://github.com/Agoric/agoric-sdk/blob/markm-many-stores/packages/marshal/src/types.js
                - We can't order everything
                    - When you have a capability to a remote object, the semantics are merely "an object with a unique identity", extended over the network into [[remoteable]] objects.
                        - Each [[remoteable]] has a unique identity, but it has no semantic basis for being ordered.
                        - So a Map that might have multiple [[remoteable]] object keys that 
                - Current state
                    - No way to transit Maps or Sets.
                - Realized he wanted to be able to traverse structures that allow capabilities as keys in maps, which means the keys cannot be canonically ordered, which means the maps do not have a canonical order.
                - Conclusion
                    - Maps as transmitted do not have an order, and therefore the order into which they are serialized __is__ the abstraction leakage that [[Mark Miller]] kept out of [[JavaScript]] at [[TC-39]].
                    - The things we agreed to call a [[tag (CapTP)]]
                        - We need to define a small number of tags that are given meaning according to some convention, and that serialize in terms of a wrapper around the lower-level data types so that if one side is sending a pass-by-copy Set it doesn't just arrive on the other side as a pass-by-copy Array, but as a Tag so that the other side would know to unwrap back into a Set on the original side.
                - KrisKowal suggestions
                    - We could have a special type of Map where the keys must be orderable.
            - JavaScript orders key/values in the order they are inserted.
                - It needed to be deterministic and not leak representation.
    - Possible candidates
        - Confused deputy
    - Wednesday morning [[Secure EcmaScript (SES)]] meetings
        - Great place to discuss [[Compartment]] and potentially [[Hermes Engine]]
            - Could this grow into an [[XS Engine]] alternative?
            - JS has a mode for empiling modules into long arrays of bytecode, which is the intended way to 
