- [[tag (CapTP)]] role in [[CapTP]]
    - Possible approaches
        - having to check for prototypes/use Tag
        - For Agoric’s purposes, we also have the option of using the E API to express some things.
        - E.tag('name', field1, field2, field3) for construction. Not sure what the representation would be.
            - ['name', field1, field2, field3] and add that object to a weakset.
        - the tag prototype delegates up to Array, so it would work like `[arg1, arg2, arg3]`, but if you care you could check the distinction wtih instanceof
    - Posit: tagged tuples / syrup records should be part of our data model
        - pros
            - I don't see having to check for prototypes/use Tag being ultimately that different from having to use arrays in non-idiomatic ways.
        - cons
            - there's some desire on the JS side for them not to be, due to preceived challenges in figuring out how to map them to JS values
            - sharing the tag namespace between CapTP and client code
            -  concern is not that having this Tag prototype is awkward and un-idomatic, but that it's a bit unclear where it should be defined/how it should be accessed?
                - I’m expecting Racket talking to JS to have a heinous-but-not-too-heinous representation of JS objects-as-records, for example.
                - I’m also expecting that JS talking to Racket might have to make a lot of use of arrays as S-expressions.
                - I expect JS calling Racket to make much more use of function application instead of method invocation, which isn’t heinous at all.
            - there's a concrete concern here about where the prototype gets defined such that its identity is always the same, which merits some thought.
    - Posit: CapTP should support positional [[arity]] records. 
        - pros
            - it's common in many languages
            - it doesn't require an IDL
            - [[Christine Lemmer Webber]]: thought the way [[Baldur/Zarutian]] did things already was quite nice
            - [[isd]]: I think I see a pretty obvious way to deal with this stuff in JS, and I think they actually add a lot of value as soon as you don't just have JS-to-JS everywhere. But I feel like I've handwaved the details in chat and either the point hasn't stuck or folks disagree and I haven't parsed the counterargument. So I think I should do a longer writeup with some code examples, which can inform further discussion. and I also think a voice/video call would be a better medium.
        - cons
            - Positional arity in JavaScript is an Array or Arguments, and I’d hesitate to overload Array | [tag, ...rest]
                - No objections to this
    - [[Kris Kowal]]:  I’m suggesting that syrup records are useful for implementing CapTP but not useful for the data model. The shared prototype idea is tantamount to extending the language.
        - pros
            - I believe we already have consensus that there will be a single data model and operational semantics, but “strong accents” when speaking between different languages. So the requirement is that we have a way to express Goblins from Agoric and Agoric from Goblins, and it just has to be “not too heinous”
        - cons
            - It would only apply when values on the wire actually use those -- so if you're doing idiomatic js-to-js implementation, never.
                - The prototype would have to be a frozen shared entity across compartment boundaries, or a built-in module available from anywhere to avoid an identity discontinuity.
                    - I think Mark first made the suggestion that idiomatic X-to-Y communication where X != Y should be an explicit non-goal
- [[May 25th, 2021]] talk on [[Secure Distributed JavaScript]]
    - Build on [[Gratitude for [[Agoric]]]]
    - MetaMask's situation
        - Squeezed between competing priorities
            - Stay secure
                - JavaScript wallets could already barely stay safe.
                - So we began the [[LavaMoat]] project
            - Keep up with permission-less innovation
                - Throttled by pull request review
                - Add an extensibility system to allow a plugin system: [[[[MetaMask]] Snaps]]!
    - Agoric's solutions
        - SES
            - A subset of JavaScript that allows "lexical confinement": No code gains access to other code by any means except explicit reference passing.
            - ```javascript
import 'ses';
lockdown();```
        - [[Compartment]]
        - SwingSet
        - CapTP
        - Blockchain
- [[social token]] https://twitter.com/jeffkauffmanjr/status/1396862810022363138?s=21
- [[distributed [[debugger]]]] [[Honeycomb io]] [[OpenTelemetry]] https://twitter.com/josh_triplett/status/1397018010506858500?s=21
