- [Full text](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/)
    -  ðŸ’¡ "Put your money where your mouth is!"
    - A tamperproof, borderless, ownerless, global record is not __just__ money and it's not __just__
 language. It's a new way of simultaneously ordering both which makes 
possible valuable, meaningful communication with anyone, anywhere, in 
any way we care to program it.
    - ## Magic internet meaning[](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/#magic-internet-meaning)
        - Although they share a common language arising from the twin practices of [faith and finance](https://kernel.community/module-1/playdough-protocols/#faith-and-finance), our [narratives](https://kernel.community/module-0/conversation) and our [financial records](https://kernel.community/module-1/value/#narrative)
 were clearly distinct before 2009. Consequently, there is confusion 
around the concept of "free" speech, because its definition shifts 
depending on the context: story or money.
        - However, money as a programmable protocol that relies on a **shared record** no-one owns is a development of the __order__
 of language, which collapses the distinction between narratives around 
which we organize and our record of societal debt. So, what happens to 
"free" speech?
        - Meaningful communication is a balance between the fact that your __ability to speak__
 ought to be free, with the fact that you don't get to say whatever you 
please. Hence we enshrine freedom of speech as a constitutional good and
 implement error-handling for exceptions like hate speech and 
defamation.
        - Protocols capable of processing valuable narratives, 
like Bitcoin and Ethereum, render such interpretive balancing acts 
unnecessary. Your ability to [access the network](https://kernel.community/module-0/money-language/#open-protocols-and-a-network-of-value)
 - much like TCP/IP - is free in all senses, requiring only a connection
 that can support you speaking in the same language as your peers. 
Saying anything __meaningful__ (i.e. state-changing) has a 
specific, well-defined economic cost, captured in transaction fees which
 accrue to the benefit of those who "listen" to what you have to say.
        - In some sense, it is the **primary benefit** of this new order of econo-linguistic network we now communicate with: everyone is simultaneously free to speak __and__
 the cost of any kind of meaningful speech is well-defined everywhere. 
We are also provided with a clear definition of meaning: any speech act 
which changes the state of our shared record.
    - ## Regulation vs expense[](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/#regulation-vs-expense)
        - In blockchains, speech and execution are __one and the same thing__
 and interpretation is deterministic. The protocol has the bare minimum 
of rules required for consensus, basically: you cannot double spend a 
token. Every peer processes every transaction which passes these rules 
without fear or favour.
        - The context is determined not by legal interpretation, but by **economics**. Rather than enshrining an ideal like "free speech" which we __agree is good__, certain behaviours we __agree to be malicious__ are made prohibitively expensive. They are not disallowed, just economically unsustainable. Vitalik touches on this in his [Devcon 1 talk](https://kernel.community/module-1/understanding-ethereum/) and we'll return to it again and again.
        - You can validate any kind of state transition you like in Eth2, but if it's provably malicious, your stake will get slashed. [Programming penalties rather than rewards](https://kernel.community/module-6/serenity/#proving-stake)
 ensures that the only state transitions worth validating are those that
 maintain a meaningful consensus. It is a profound change in how we 
regulate expression.
        - Again, it points at complementary opposites:
        -  ðŸ’¡ The most effective way to free meaning is to price it correctly.
    - ## Math beats bureaucracy[](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/#math-beats-bureaucracy)
        - Pricing
 different kinds of speech appropriately, rather than trying to 
"protect" a culturally-conditioned ideal, has the second-order 
cybernetic effect of better securing public goods. For instance, SSTOREs
 are a relatively expensive operation/expression because storing data on
 public networks is costly, and it is a cost borne by all of us. 
Therefore, we agree upon a gas price that incentivizes developers to 
write contracts which store the minimum possible information required 
for state-changing, meaningful transactions.
        - We could even say 
that, on freely accessible public blockchains, there is no such thing as
 free speech. There is only increasingly costly expression for 
increasingly complex kinds of meaning, with the incentives programmed 
such that the costs borne by the speaker are always provably more than 
those imposed on the community of listeners.
    - ## The expanded view[](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/#the-expanded-view)
        - When
 we stop "protecting" free speech, but instead price any speech act 
according to a set of explicit consensus rules we all agree to follow, 
the space of **meaningful communications** is greatly expanded.
        - You may think this unfairly favours the rich, but you'd be wrong. We can **program**
 our shared ledger in any way we care to! If your program favours those 
already in power, it's because you lack creativity, not because of some 
limitation in the underlying protocol. Look at Gitcoin Grants and 
Quadratic Funding: a speech act which donates $1 to a cause can have 
nearly as great an effect as a donation two orders of magnitude larger, 
because we've [modelled clearly the most optimal way](https://kernel.community/module-4/liberal-radical/#optimal-gathering) to fund public goods.
        - 
 ðŸ’¡ When there is nothing to protect, we no longer need guards. Without 
guards, the digital world is not about captive audiences, but creative 
participation.
    - ## Clarifying metaphors[](https://kernel.community/module-2/money-speech/#clarifying-metaphors)
        - Money-as-a-programmable-protocol
 is "spoken" as hex-encoded data strings, which are run on and 
interpreted by a monolithic virtual machine which is everywhere and 
nowhere, so our metaphor can only go so far. Despite the descriptive 
limitations of natural language faced with such a construction, we can 
still be precise about the exceptions to free speech mentioned above and
 how they might be handled in a world which does not "protect" speech, 
but rather agrees communally on its cost.
        - More
 fundamentally, this new order of communication, akin to the appearance 
of language itself, is best demonstrated by the simple fact that you 
need only memorize 12 magical **words**, incant them into an internet-connected machine and you gain immediate access to **monetary value**,
 anywhere in the world. One can even encode a reference to a newspaper 
headline in the genesis block of a network of timestamp servers 
(Satoshi's wording) which run money-as-a-protocol to make a permanent 
political statement. It is unprecedented.
- Notes
    - I think the key insight that I was highlighting with my joke is that neither computer attackers nor speech derives its power from the attacker/speaker alone: There is an act of the host opening themselves up. Listening is required to grant something power.
    - In the context of a global borderless payments network, a person has to be willing to accept it for it to hold value. If they don't give you the ability to send to them (usually expressed as an address), then there's nothing your spectacular pile of techno-gizmodry can do about it.
    - But yes, there's value to opening yourself up to these outside things; new ideas, new cooperation, even new value. If you're willing to accept a ledger as valuable, then you also open yourself up to being rewarded by it.
    - 
