- As opposed to [[non-overt channel]]
- As described by [[Mark Miller]]
    - An overt channel is one that the specification of the platform says will convey information. i = 1 communicating 1 to those that can read i, is an overt channel. In an ocap system, overt causality is carried only on references/capabilities, and so subgraph isolation also isolates overt communications channels.
    - As is too often the case when forming a taxonomy, there are taxonomy breaking odd cases.
        - [WeakRefs]([[WeakRef]]) create a [[semi-[[overt channel]]]]. If a weakref says that foo has disappeared, then the semantics of the platform guarantee that foo has actually disappeared. If Alice who had a strong pointer to foo might drop that pointer, and Bob sees that foo disappeared, then the semantics of the platform applied to that scenario give Bob guaranteed knowledge that Alice did drop her strong pointer.
            - But if Bob still sees foo, i.e., foo did not disappear, then the semantics is silent of whether Alice dropped her strong pointer. Bob has no overt knowledge. But with knowledge of a particular correct implementation, i.e., an implementation which is allowed by the spec, Bob may conclude that Alice did not drop her strong pointer. Bob would then have non-overt knowledge.
            - For example, the spec allows an implementation to engage in extreme gc (a term I just coined) where the memory representation of everything enables precise (non-conservative) gc, and each weakref deref first does a whole-system gc before deciding how to honor the deref. If Bob knows he's running on that system and sees foo, then he's certain that Alice didn't drop her strong pointer.
            - Outside that extreme, Bob may not be certain, but his observations together with some knowledge of the implementation may lead him to change his probability estimate. This would still be non-overt knowledge.
