- A set of principles that describe the ideal properties for a system of managing authority described by [[Marc Stiegler]] in his essay [[Rich Sharing for the Web]].
- Conceptually similar to
    - [[object capability (ocap)]], which refers to achieving these properties in the syntax of a programming language.
    - [[social collateral]], which achieves the same properties in web of [[peer to peer lending]]
- Six principles to [[rich sharing]]
    - Dynamic – Alice must be able to grant Carol’s car-driving authority quickly and effortlessly without requiring action from Carol’s, Alice’s, or Bob’s IT departments.
        - Users will hack around a system that doesn't let them do what they want, undermining the system's security!
    - Attenuated – Alice has Carol’s car key on Alice’s key ring. Alice must be able to give Bill the key to Carol’s car without surrendering the entire ring of keys that include Alice’s own car and Alice’s house keys. I.e., Alice must be able to grant the authority without giving Bill her single signon password. See: [[caveat]]
    - Chained – The authority Alice is giving Bob does not originate with Alice, it originates with Carol. Alice must be able to re-delegate to Bob the authority delegated to her by Carol. Further, Bob will have to be able to re-delegate the authority again, to Dave at the repair shop. Building attenuating chains of delegation is particularly hard for traditional access control list oriented sharing. Transform this car-delegation problem into a file sharing scenario. Carol has given read-only (attenuated) authority to Alice. Now Alice needs to enable Bob to fulfill her file-reading responsibilities while Alice is in the meeting. Simplify by assuming that Carol and Alice and Bob are all behind the same firewall and are all part of the same administrative domain. Even with these simplifications, the acl system fails: Alice cannot delegate her read authority to Bob. Why? Because, in order to grant a read authority Bob, Alice would have to have access control list editing authority – which would confer to Alice de facto full control over the file. See: [[transitive [[delegation]]]]
    - Cross domain – The car-driving authority originates in Carol’s domain, passes through the domain where Alice works with Bob, and winds up at Dave’s repair shop. The authority must seamlessly pass across all these domains without requiring construction of a federated identity management system for Alice Bob, Carol, and Dave. This is again difficult for traditional access-control list security, which stops at the administrative boundary where the identities cease to be recognized.
    - Recomposable – Dave must be able to operate the repair shop’s garage door and drive the car at the same time. If Carol’s car were behind one firewall, and the garage door were behind another firewall, this would not be possible – only one VPN can used to cross one firewall at a time, otherwise a significant POLA violation may occur.
    - Accountable – Accountability in the physical world has numerous subtleties. If Bob wrecks Carol’s car, Carol will want to hold Alice accountable, not Bob – Carol probably doesn’t even know Bob, and she has no ongoing relationship with Bob via which she can pursue remediation. On the other hand, once Bob passes the car into Dave’s hands, if Dave wrecks the car, Carol will want to hold Dave responsible – despite the transitive grant of authority across Bob whom Carol does not know, Carol once again has an ongoing relationship and a means of remediation with Dave. 
        - Really evokes [[social collateral]]
