- By [[Marc Stiegler]]
- [Full text](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf)
    - {{pdf: https://firebasestorage.googleapis.com/v0/b/firescript-577a2.appspot.com/o/imgs%2Fapp%2FMetaMask%2FIzM-Y_EWi-.pdf?alt=media&token=251fe044-9e60-4195-817d-28a5e5a01e30}}
    - Body
        - [](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=1)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=2)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=3)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=4)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=5)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=6)[](https://www.hpl.hp.com/techreports/2009/HPL-2009-169.pdf#page=7)
        - Keyword(s):   Abstract: ©Rich Sharing for the WebMarc StieglerHP LaboratoriesHPL-2009-169secure cooperation, usable securityWe use email for a tremendous number of different purposes. Interestingly, we often use email for purposesfor which other applications have been explicitly designed - email, even though not purpose-built, often"just works better". Why is this? We have identified 6 key features of sharing that are needed to supportsecure cooperation, features that enable the users themselves to build networks of access rights thatimplement the Principle of Least Authority(POLA), thereby maximizing the opportunities for cooperationamong participants with limited mutual trust. Systems that do not implement these 6 features will feel rigidand inadequately functional once enough users are involved, forcing the users to seek alternate means to"work around" the limitations in those applications. Email is almost the only application on the Web thatimplements all six features, making it the natural fall-back application. We use email for everythingbecause email is the only thing that works for everything. Here we describe the six features, highlight someof the consequences when the six features are not integrated, and look at the results when an application isbuilt specifically to support the whole set in a "rich sharing" system.External Posting Date: July 21, 2009 [Fulltext]          Approved for External PublicationInternal Posting Date: July 21, 2009 [Fulltext]Copyright 2009 Hewlett-Packard Development Company, L.P.
        - Rich Sharing for the Web Marc Stiegler HP Labs marc.d.stiegler@hp.comAbstract We use email for a tremendous number of different purposes. Interestingly, we often use email for purposes for which other applications have been explicitly designed – email, even though not purpose-built, often “just works better”. Why is this? We  have  identified  6  key  features  of  sharing  that  are  needed  to  support  secure  cooperation,  features  that  enable  the  users  themselves to build networks of access rights that implement the Principle of Least Authority(POLA), thereby maximizing the opportunities  for  cooperation  among  participants  with  limited  mutual trust. Systems that do not  implement  these  6  features  will  feel  rigid  and  inadequately  functional  once  enough  users  are  involved,  forcing  the  users  to  seek  alternate  means  to  “work around” the limitations in those applications. Email is almost the only application on the Web that implements all six features, making it the natural fall-back application. We use email for everything because email is the only thing that works for everything. Here we describe the six features, highlight some of the consequences when the six features are not integrated, and look at the results when an application is built specifically to support the whole set in a “rich sharing” system. Problem Too  many  of  our  distributed  system  applications  feel  rigid  and  inadequately  able  to  support  our  need  to  solve  problems  in  cooperation  with  our  teammates.  Consider  two  real-life  examples  that  represent  failures  of  our  systems to enable even the most basic sharing relationships. •The  employee’s  pay  stub:  The  employee’s  pay  stub  is  made  available  as  an  online  web  page  that  lives  behind  the  corporate  firewall  and  can  be  accessed  only  with  the  employee’s  single-signon  password.  However,  suppose  that  the  employee’s  spouse  is  the  one  who  schedules  vacations  and  maintains  the  family’s  financial  accounts.  The  spouse  needs  access  to  the  pay  stubs  (and  would  like  to  further  grant  access  to  the  pay  stubs  to  the  family’s  tax  accountant,  during  the  tax  preparation  period).  But  to  grant  access, the employee would have to give the spouse both the means to hook up to the corporate VPN (to get  inside  the  firewall)  and  the  single-signon  password.  Each  of  these  actions  is  necessarily  a  gross  violation  of  corporate  security  policy,  for  they  are  gross  violations  of  the  principle  of  least  authority  (POLA): the spouse would acquire authority far in excess of what is needed, authority that could easily be abused  either  maliciously  or  by  accident.  In  practice,  today  the  employee  resorts  to  the  following  stratagem:  bring  up  the  pay  stub  in  the  web  browser,  snapshot  the  window  on  the  stub  into  a  file,  and  email  the  file  to  the  spouse  (who  then  emails  it  forward  to  the  tax  accountant).  This  is  tedious,  time  consuming, insecure (email is generally not encrypted, leaving this sensitive information open to MITM attacks), and error-prone. But it is the best current technology offers us. •Simple File Sharing: Alice wishes to collaboratively edit a file with Bob. In theory, the access control list (acl) systems on our computers and networks would enable such sharing by allowing Alice to simply add an  access  control  entry  to  the  list  that  grants  Bob  the  right  to  edit  the  file.  In  practice,  this  technique  is  often  too  awkward  or  is  entirely  nonfunctional.  Suppose  Bob  works  for  another  company.  The  sharing  would  not  work  across  the  firewall  even  if  Alice  could  construct  the  appropriate  access  control  entry  –  which she cannot, because Bob has no identity inside the administrative domain for which the acl system has been constructed. IT organizations may try to work around this in the most crucial circumstances by using  federated  identity  management,  but  in  practice,  Alice  will  simply  email  the  file  to  Bob  with  the  note, “Bob, when you are done editing this, send it back to me.”
        - [](mailto:marc.d.stiegler@hp.com)
        - Solution: The Six Features of Sharing Ironically,  problems  like  this  have  been  solved  smoothly  in  the  physical  world  since  before  the  advent  of  computers.  We  have  identified  six  key  features  of  sharing  that  are  routinely  implemented  in  the  physical  world.  When  integrated  properly  these  features  enable  ordinary  people  to  comfortably  and  intuitively  implement  good  approximations of POLA, thus enabling people to work together even when they have limited trust in one another. Let us consider the six features in the context of a simple three-sentence physical world example that uses all six features at the same time: Alice, in a race to her next meeting, turns thunder-struck to Bob and says, “Bob, I just remembered I need to get my  daughter  Carol’s  car  to  Dave’s  repair  shop.  I’ve  got  to  go  to  this  meeting.  Can  you  take  Carol’s  car  over  there?” Here are the six features, and how each plays into solving this simple problem. •Dynamic  –  Alice  must  be  able  to  grant  Carol’s  car-driving  authority  quickly  and  effortlessly  without  requiring action from Carol’s, Alice’s, or Bob’s IT departments. •Attenuated  –  Alice  has  Carol’s  car  key  on  Alice’s  key  ring.  Alice  must  be  able  to  give  Bill  the  key  to  Carol’s  car  without  surrendering  the  entire  ring  of  keys  that  include  Alice’s  own  car  and  Alice’s  house  keys. I.e., Alice must be able to grant the authority without giving Bill her single signon password. •Chained – The authority Alice is giving Bob does not originate with Alice, it originates with Carol. Alice must be able to re-delegate to Bob the authority delegated to her by Carol. Further, Bob will have to be able  to  re-delegate  the  authority  again,  to  Dave  at  the  repair  shop.  Building  attenuating  chains  of  delegation  is  particularly  hard  for  traditional  access  control  list  oriented  sharing.  Transform  this  car-delegation problem into a file sharing scenario. Carol has given read-only (attenuated) authority to Alice. Now  Alice  needs  to  enable  Bob  to  fulfill  her  file-reading  responsibilities  while  Alice  is  in  the  meeting.  Simplify by assuming that Carol and Alice and Bob are all behind the same firewall and are all part of the same administrative domain. Even with these simplifications, the acl system fails: Alice cannot delegate her  read  authority  to  Bob.  Why?  Because,  in  order  to  grant  a  read  authority  Bob,  Alice  would  have  to  have access control list editing authority – which would confer to Alice de facto full control over the file.   •Cross domain – The car-driving authority originates in Carol’s domain, passes through the domain where Alice works with Bob, and winds up at Dave’s repair shop. The authority must seamlessly pass across all these  domains  without  requiring  construction  of  a  federated  identity  management  system  for  Alice  Bob,  Carol,  and  Dave.  This  is  again  difficult  for  traditional  access-control  list  security,  which  stops  at  the  administrative boundary where the identities cease to be recognized.  •Recomposable – Dave must be able to operate the repair shop’s garage door and drive the car at the same time.  If  Carol’s  car  were  behind  one  firewall,  and  the  garage  door  were  behind  another  firewall,  this  would  not  be  possible  –  only  one  VPN  can  used  to  cross  one  firewall  at  a  time,  otherwise  a  significant  POLA violation may occur.  •Accountable – Accountability in the physical world has numerous subtleties. If Bob wrecks Carol’s car, Carol will want to hold Alice accountable, not Bob – Carol probably doesn’t even know Bob, and she has no  ongoing  relationship  with  Bob  via  which  she  can  pursue  remediation.  On  the  other  hand,  once  Bob  passes  the  car  into  Dave’s  hands,  if  Dave  wrecks  the  car,  Carol  will  want  to  hold  Dave  responsible  –  despite the transitive grant of authority across Bob whom Carol does not know, Carol once again has an ongoing relationship and a means of remediation with Dave. Given these six features, the users in the field with the most knowledge of who needs authority to do what are in position to build networks of resource access that embody the principle of least authority. Chaining is the feature that  ensures  that  the  individual  principle  has  enough  authority.  Attenuation  is  the  feature  that  ensures  the  individual  principle  does  not  have  excess  authority.  Dynamicity,  domain-crossing,  and  recomposability  are  requirements that need recognition mainly because the web has haphazardly constructed so many impediments to sharing that these features must be explicitly designed into systems in order to overcome the web’s complexities.
- notes
    - Six principles to [[rich sharing]]
        - Dynamic – Alice must be able to grant Carol’s car-driving authority quickly and effortlessly without requiring action from Carol’s, Alice’s, or Bob’s IT departments.
            - Users will hack around a system that doesn't let them do what they want, undermining the system's security!
        - Attenuated – Alice has Carol’s car key on Alice’s key ring. Alice must be able to give Bill the key to Carol’s car without surrendering the entire ring of keys that include Alice’s own car and Alice’s house keys. I.e., Alice must be able to grant the authority without giving Bill her single signon password. See: [[caveat]]
        - Chained – The authority Alice is giving Bob does not originate with Alice, it originates with Carol. Alice must be able to re-delegate to Bob the authority delegated to her by Carol. Further, Bob will have to be able to re-delegate the authority again, to Dave at the repair shop. Building attenuating chains of delegation is particularly hard for traditional access control list oriented sharing. Transform this car-delegation problem into a file sharing scenario. Carol has given read-only (attenuated) authority to Alice. Now Alice needs to enable Bob to fulfill her file-reading responsibilities while Alice is in the meeting. Simplify by assuming that Carol and Alice and Bob are all behind the same firewall and are all part of the same administrative domain. Even with these simplifications, the acl system fails: Alice cannot delegate her read authority to Bob. Why? Because, in order to grant a read authority Bob, Alice would have to have access control list editing authority – which would confer to Alice de facto full control over the file. See: [[transitive [[delegation]]]]
        - Cross domain – The car-driving authority originates in Carol’s domain, passes through the domain where Alice works with Bob, and winds up at Dave’s repair shop. The authority must seamlessly pass across all these domains without requiring construction of a federated identity management system for Alice Bob, Carol, and Dave. This is again difficult for traditional access-control list security, which stops at the administrative boundary where the identities cease to be recognized.
        - Recomposable – Dave must be able to operate the repair shop’s garage door and drive the car at the same time. If Carol’s car were behind one firewall, and the garage door were behind another firewall, this would not be possible – only one VPN can used to cross one firewall at a time, otherwise a significant POLA violation may occur.
        - Accountable – Accountability in the physical world has numerous subtleties. If Bob wrecks Carol’s car, Carol will want to hold Alice accountable, not Bob – Carol probably doesn’t even know Bob, and she has no ongoing relationship with Bob via which she can pursue remediation. On the other hand, once Bob passes the car into Dave’s hands, if Dave wrecks the car, Carol will want to hold Dave responsible – despite the transitive grant of authority across Bob whom Carol does not know, Carol once again has an ongoing relationship and a means of remediation with Dave. 
            - Really evokes [[social collateral]]
    - Team notes
        - Shortcomings of Email
            - No cryptographic proof of authorship.
        - This could be nice for medical data sharing
            - [[Oasis Labs]]
        - Modern tools
            - Twitter
                - Pros
                    - Easy re-sharing (delegation)
                    - Proof of authorship
            - Slack
                - Cons
                    - Very hard to set up shared channels
            - Gmail
                - Uses email as its permission-sharing bootstrap protocol!
